JUDY WOODRUFF: Now we return
to the battle over health care
and President Trump's meeting
with Senate Republicans
at the White House.
We hear from two people
who were in the room, first
Senator Pat Roberts of Kansas.
He is a member of the
Health, Education, Labor
and Pensions Committee.
I spoke with him a short time
ago and started by asking what
the president changed today
in his pitch to senators.
SEN.
PAT ROBERTS (R), Kansas: We
had a meeting that I thought
was highly productive.
I thought the president made
a very good case that if you
simply have a repeal and, in two
years, you're going to see
further deterioration, if that's
the right word, for Obamacare.
In Kansas, our premiums
continue to soar.
We're up now $3,000.
This is a little like being in
the back seat of a convertible
with Thelma and Louise and
we're headed toward the canyon.
We're about at the edge.
So, we have got to do something.
Number one, we have
to get out of the car.
Number two, we have got
to get into a new car.
And that's what the
president was talking about.
We had the entire
Republican Conference.
I think he did a good message.
There was a good -- I
think he did a good job.
JUDY WOODRUFF: But what
has changed with your
Republican colleagues?
Because, yesterday,
there weren't going to be
enough votes to do this.
Today, there are?
Is that simply because of an
argument the president made?
SEN.
PAT ROBERTS: Well, the first
thing is, Judy, is that we have
got to get over this business
of denying the leadership of
our party, Mitch McConnell,
at least a motion to proceed.
I think the American people
want us to debate it.
I think the American
people want us to vote
on several different
items that people would
be presenting.
This is a vote-a-rama anyway.
You're probably going
to have 150 votes,.
But we need a debate
and we need to vote.
Now, this business of
stopping the motion to
proceed, that has to quit.
And that was one of the
main messages that the
president indicated,
to give Mitch McConnell
the -- obviously, the number
of votes he needed to go ahead
with this kind of an exercise.
I think the president
really listened.
We had at least 35 people,
maybe 40, make suggestions
with regards to the bill.
There was a lot of consensus.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Right.
SEN.
PAT ROBERTS: And the other thing
-- and I think he mentioned
this is much larger than
health care -- is whether or not
Republicans can actually govern.
JUDY WOODRUFF: So, you're
saying -- let me just clarify.
So, you're saying whether
Republicans can get together
as a group is more important
than health care legislation?
SEN.
PAT ROBERTS: No, it's
not more important.
It's another consideration,
that, if we can't do this, maybe
you can't do tax reform or,
for that matter, anything
else on the table.
Both are very important.
Obviously, you have to
get health care right.
That was the whole
intent of the meeting.
He listened very carefully.
He stated his position
very forcefully.
And I think it was
a good meeting.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, let me
ask you about the fact that the
criticisms of this legislation
are the same today as
they were yesterday.
And I'm just looking
at the state of Kansas.
Your hospital association had
-- had looked at the changes
you had proposed directing
more money to the hospitals.
And they said, that's great,
but they said, even with that,
it doesn't make up for the
deep cuts to Medicaid and
other problems with the bill.
What would you say today to
your hospital association?
SEN.
PAT ROBERTS: Well, as a matter
of fact, I'm meeting with them
just as I get through talking
with you.
I will point out to
them that Obamacare will
continue to deteriorate.
We have already lost
one insurance company;
42,000 Kansans don't
have insurance anymore.
And if we lose our remaining
insurer, we're really
going to be in trouble.
So, it isn't so much what we
would like to have as what
is happening to Obamacare.
Now, working with the
Kansas Hospital Association,
I think there are going
to be some new ideas
presented in whatever
bill that comes up with
- - or we come up with.
And the president was
doing a lot of listening.
The White House was doing a lot
of listening, Tom Price, Seema
Verma, all the people within
the administration, that
they're going to come
up with something new.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Senator, I also
was reading that 70 percent
of all Medicaid enrollees
in the state of
Kansas are children.
SEN.
PAT ROBERTS: Right.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Three hundred
thousand Kansas children.
What's going to happen to them?
SEN.
PAT ROBERTS: Well, they're
going to be covered.
We are increasing
Medicaid every year.
There may be some more
wrap-around amendments or
different opportunities
for Medicaid for
us.
And we were a
non-Medicaid state.
I think one of the reasons the
Kansas Hospital Association
was so upset with this is that,
twice, they really supported
efforts on Medicaid funding, and
not to make it a non-Medicaid
expansion state.
But that ship has sailed.
The Kansas state legislature
didn't approve that, and
the governor vetoed it.
And they were not able
to override the veto.
We have to work
with what we have.
They're going to be in my
office in about 30 minutes, and
we are going to go over that
and what the president said.
JUDY WOODRUFF: Well, we look
forward to hearing about
the outcome of that meeting.
Senator Pat Roberts of
Kansas, thank you very much.
SEN.
PAT ROBERTS: My privilege.
Thank you.